Ingridients:
Handful of coriander leaves, washed and dried
Sesame seed oil
Sushi grade tuna
1 Nori sheet


Method:
Step 1: Finely chop coriander
To chop your coriander, roll it all together into a tube shape then chop finely.

Step 2: Cover the tuna in sesame oil before rolling in the coriander
Take a piece of sushi grade tuna, it should be cut to 2.5 cm in width and height, but can be as long as you want it to be.

Sprinkle sesame oil over each side of the tuna, rubbing it in with your hands as you go along. This is so that the coriander will stick to it more easily.

Roll the tuna strip into the chopped coriander, keep rolling it round until the whole strip is covered evenly.
Once the tuna is covered, place it to one side until needed.

Step 3: Searing the tuna
Heat your pan, and add a splash of sesame seed oil.

Once the pan is hot, add the strip of coriander covered tuna and begin to sear it. By searing the fish, you’ll add a subtle layer of deep flavour and intensity to it, known as the maillard reaction.

Leave each side to sear for 20 seconds, turning the tuna 90 degrees after each side is browned.

Remember this is sushi grade tuna, which is meant to be enjoyed raw like sashimi, so don’t worry if it still looks raw after the 20 seconds is up.

Once the fish has been browned for 20 seconds on all four sides, place it back on the chopping board and leave it to rest for a couple of minutes.

Step 4: Wrapping the tuna in a nori sheet
Take your nori sheet and lay it on your chopping board.

Take the coriander covered tuna and place it on the nori sheet, so that its edge is in line with one of the shorter edges of the nori.

Roll it up until each side of the tuna is covered, then trim off the excess nori.

Leave the roll to rest for a minute.

 Step 5: Cut your roll using a sharp knife
To cut your roll, first trim off the uneven edge, then continue to cut the roll into even pieces until you reach the other end.

When cutting, having a very sharp knife will help you to achieve straighter, cleaner cuts.

Step 6: Arranging your garnish
Prepare your plate by garnishing it with lettuce leaves, arranging them however you like.

Then add your red pepper and lemon twists to the top and decorate with the carrot butterflies.

Next, place your chopped tuna cubes in a diagonal line across the plate.
Serve with a generous bowl of soy sauce on the side for dipping.
