Sanjana’s Momo Recipe by Tasty
Sides
Here's what you need: ground chicken, red onion, scallions, fresh cilantro, garlic, ginger, turmeric, red chili powder, garam masala, ghee, olive oil, small dumpling wrapper, napa cabbage, chutney, olive oil, medium tomato, thai chili, garlic, ginger, turmeric, szechuan pepper, salt, toasted sesame seeds, fresh cilantro
Indian
1 pound ground chicken ½ red onion, finely chopped ½ cup finely chopped scallions ½ cup finely chopped cilantro 1 tablespoon minced garlic 1 tablespoon grated ginger 1 teaspoon turmeric 1 teaspoon red chili powder 1 teaspoon garam masala 2 tablespoons melted ghee or butter 2 tablespoons olive oil 80-90 dumpling wrappers (small) Napa cabbage leaves or parchment paper to line the steamer Dipping Chutney (Optional) 1 tablespoon olive oil 4 medium tomatoes, chopped 4 thai chilies, chopped 1 tablespoon minced garlic 1 tablespoon grated ginger ½ teaspoon turmeric 1 teaspoon Szechuan peppers or dried chilies Salt, to taste 2 tablespoons toasted sesame seeds ¼ cup cilantro
Make the filling: In a large bowl, combine the ground chicken, red onion, scallions, cilantro, garlic, ginger, turmeric, chili powder, garam masala, ghee, and olive oil. Mix well with your hands. Place a tablespoon of filling in the middle of a dumpling wrapper. Using your finger, lightly wet the outer rim with water. Pinch the top of the wrapper, using your fingers to pleat and tighten as you close so it looks like a little pouch. Repeat with the remaining wrappers and filling. Bring a large pot filled a third of the way with water to boil over high heat and top with a dumpling steamer basket. Line the basket with cabbage leaves. Steam the momos in batches for 12-15 minutes, until the wrapper becomes slightly translucent. Make the dipping sauce: In a medium saucepan, heat the olive oil over medium heat. Add the tomatoes, thai chilies, garlic, ginger, turmeric, and Szechuan peppers. Season with salt. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the tomato is softened, for 5 minutes. Remove the pan from the heat, and let cool for 5-10 minutes. Transfer the tomato mixture to a blender and add the sesame seeds and cilantro. Blend until smooth. Serve the momos with the dipping chutney. Enjoy!
