No-Bake Chocolate Pudding Cake Recipe by Tasty
Desserts
Here's what you need: chocolate hazelnut spread, graham cracker, instant chocolate pudding, milk, cream cheese, sugar, vanilla, chocolate, chocolate frosting, raspberry, graham cracker crumbs, chocolate shaving

1½ cup chocolate hazelnut spread, warmed 24 graham crackers, halved 2 packets instant chocolate pudding 4 cups milk 8 ounces cream cheese ½ cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla ½ cup chocolate, melted 2-3 cups chocolate frosting Raspberries, for garnish Graham cracker crumbs, for garnish Chocolate shavings, for garnish
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and grease with nonstick cooking spray. Spread the chocolate hazelnut spread into an even rectangle, leaving ¼ inch (6 mm) between each cracker. Place 20 graham cracker halves on top of chocolate hazelnut mixture and freeze until solid, about 30 minutes. Cut between the graham cracker pieces with a knife. Lay a cutting board on top of the graham crackers and invert the baking sheet. Carefully peel the parchment paper from the chocolate hazelnut layer. Return to freezer until ready to build cake. In a large bowl, combine the instant pudding and milk, and whisk until fully incorporated. Allow to set for at least five minutes. In a medium bowl, combine the cream cheese, sugar, and vanilla, and mix until fully incorporated. Fold in the melted chocolate until fully incorporated. Add the cream cheese mixture to the pudding mixture and stir until fully combined. Add three quarters of the pudding mixture to the bottom of a 10-inch (25-cm) greased springform pan. Make a ring along the edge of the pan with the chocolate hazelnut graham crackers pressing them until they are even with the top of the pan. Leave a ¼ to ½–inch (2 to 6-cm) gap and make another ring using plain graham cracker pieces. Repeat, alternating between chocolate hazelnut and plain graham crackers, until you reach the center. Fill the pan with the remaining pudding mixture and spread evenly across the top. Freeze the cake for at least 4 hours. Release the chilled cake from the pan and frost with chocolate frosting. Garnish with raspberries, crushed graham crackers, and chocolate shavings. Enjoy!
