Ingridients:
120 grams of cooked white sushi rice
Half a sheet of nori
1/3 grilled unagi (eel) filet
A half cucumber, skinned and thinly sliced
6 slices of avocado
Foie gras with layered black truffles
Sturgeon black caviar
Edible gold leaf flakes


Method:

Step 1: preparing the filling
Put a half sheet of nori lengthways in front of you on a cutting board. Spread 120 grams of cooked sushi rice evenly on the nori, using your fingers to gently fluff the rice. Make sure the rice evenly covers the whole sheet.
Move the nori to the top of the cutting board. Wipe the surface of the board with a moistened tea towel. This will prevent the rice from sticking to the board.
Flip over the nori sheet. Then use a knife to put the grilled unagi filet at the center of the sheet (lengthways), followed by the sliced cucumber. Arrange the cucumber in front of the unagi. Make sure it extends to the entire length of the nori sheet.
Step 2: rolling the roll
You can roll the sushi roll manually or with the aid of a bamboo rolling mat. To roll it manually, put your thumbs underneath the edge of the nori sheet closest to you. Then roll or fold the sheet over the filling. Use both hands to compress the roll, to help it adhere.
Put a bamboo rolling mat in a plastic zip-lock bag. Firm up the roll by placing the mat over the roll. Press with your fingers along the length of the roll to compress the contents. Turn the roll over and repeat.
Step 3: cutting the roll
Put six slices of avocado on the length of the sushi roll, leaving even spaces between each slice. Cover the entire roll with cling film and use your fingers to compress the content. Leave the cling film in place for the time being.
Wet your sushi knife with some water. Trim off both ends of the roll. Cut the roll in half. Then cut each half into thirds. Bring the knife down and push it through the roll to ensure a clean cut. Use the bamboo mat to compress the contents once more, then remove the cling film.

Step 4: adding the indulgent toppings

Scrape a thin sliver of foie gras on a butter knife and transfer it onto a slice of sushi. You may find it helpful to use a second knife to do this. Do the same for all sushi slices.
Use a blow-torch to gently brûlée (brown) the foie gras. This releases the delicious, earthy aroma of the black truffle. Hold the blow-torch approximately 3 inches from the surface of the slice for just a few seconds. Do the same with all foie gras slices.
Now add the caviar. Simply heap a little on the end of a teaspoon, then use a second spoon to push it onto the foie gras. For best results, do this while the foie gras is still warm. This will help the roe to adhere. Repeat this step for all six slices.
Sprinkle a fine dusting of edible gold leaf over each slice.
Mix 1 part of truffle oil with 10 part of Extra Virgin olive oil. Drizzle a little bit of the mixture over the sushi slices and serve.
Step 5: serving the sushi
Position all six slices on a dark sushi board at a 45-degree angle. Leave some space between the slices. Put small ‘nests’ of brightly colored, shredded vegetables (such as cucumber and carrot) behind each slice. As a final touch to the opulent esthetic, add a few ornately carved pieces of wasabi. Now you’re ready to eat and feel like a million dollar!
