Ingridients:
Sushi rice 150g (5 oz)
1 Nori sheet
Asparagus (4-5 sticks)
Masago (Capelin Roe)
Sliced salmon fillet
Tempura Batter
Panko (Japanese breadcrumbs)


Method:
Step 1: Constructing Your Sushi Roll
Start with a single sheet of Nori on your plastic bag covered bamboo rolling mat. Spread 150g (5 oz) white sushi rice across half of the sheet using your fingers. Remember not to press down too hard or your rice will be packed too tightly once rolled.

Flip over the nori sheet. Then, layer 4-5 sticks of asparagus across the width of the sheet, about 1 cm in from the edge. Using a teaspoon, add a generous layer of masago on top of the asparagus. These delicious fish eggs are enhanced with a little seasoning to enhance the delicate flavor of the sushi roll, perfectly complimented by the asparagus. Top with a single long strip of fatty sashimi grade salmon.

Step 2: Rolling Your Sushi Roll
Starting from the end of the sheet, curl the bamboo mat over using your fingers, pressing gently but firmly to help pack the contents together. Ensure the end of the Nori sheet ‘sticks’ as it is rolled. Keep rolling forward and compressing until you have a firmly packed, circular roll.

More information how to roll sushi.

Step 3: Deep Frying the Sushi Roll
To create the crispy outer coating of your sushi roll, you’ll need to roll it in tempura batter. For ease of rolling, pour a little of the batter onto a small flat plate. Holding your sushi roll firmly in one hand, dip either end into the batter to help seal them during the frying process. Then, roll the entire sushi roll across the plate, coating the rice in tempura batter.

Quickly transfer the roll over to the plate of panko. As before, roll it across the plate, making sure the panko adheres evenly to the batter. You may need to roll it back and forth to get a nice even coverage.

Then, simply drop the entire roll into the fryer. Leave for 3-4 minutes, or until the outer casing is a light golden brown. This will also allow sufficient time for the salmon at the center to cook.

When cooked, remove with a pair of metal tongs and place onto a paper napkin to allow the excess oil to run off and be absorbed. Allow to cool for at least ten minutes prior to the next stage.

Step 4: Cutting the Sushi Roll
Before cutting your sushi roll, dip the tip of your knife in cold water and let it run down the blade. This will prevent rice and batter sticking as you make each cut.

Cut the roll into 1.5 cm segments (or approx. 3/5 of an inch). This will make 8 segments in total, plus the two end pieces which can either be used as decorative centerpieces for a sushi buffet, or to lay your segments against for presentation.

Step 5: Serving the Sushi Roll
To serve the deep fried sushi rolls just like any other sushi roll serve it on a plate accompanied by some wasabi, pickled ginger and soya sauce.
