Ingridients:

450g medium-grain white rice (such as Calrose)
560ml cold water
1 (10cm-square) piece dried kelp (konbu),* wiped lightly with dry cloth
4 Tbsp rice vinegar
2 Tbsp caster sugar
2 tsp salt
4 Tbsp mayonnaise
2 Tbsp Dijon mustard
1 Tbsp chipotle pepper puree
1 Tbsp honey
2 Tbsp canola oil
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
4 (21 by 18cm) sheets roasted nori

Sushi rice
225g white sesame seeds
560g fresh tuna, finely diced
110g coarsely chopped coriander leaves
3 spring onions, thinly sliced

Method:

1) Place the rice in a strainer and rinse under cold water until the water runs clear. Drain well.
2) Transfer the rice to a heavy medium saucepan. Add 300ml fresh cold water and the kelp to the pan.
Cover and leave to soak for 30 minutes.
3) Uncover, discard the kelp and bring the mixture to the boil. Reduce the heat to low. Cover and cook
until the water is absorbed and the rice is just tender, about 15 minutes.
4) Remove from the heat and allow to stand, covered, for 15 minutes. Transfer the sushi rice to large
glass bowl.
5) Combine the vinegar, sugar and salt in a small saucepan. Stir over a low heat until the sugar dissolves.
Drizzle the mixture over the sushi rice.
6) Gently toss the rice with vinegar mixture to coat. Cover the rice with a clean damp towel and cool
completely at room temperature (do not refrigerate).
7) Whisk together the mayonnaise, mustard, chipotle, honey and oil; season with salt and pepper.
8) Place a sushi mat on the work surface with the slats running crosswise. Arrange 1 sheet of nori, shiny
side down, on the mat, lining up a long edge of the sheet with the edge of the mat nearest you.
9) Using damp fingers, gently press 1/4 of the rice onto the nori in 1 layer, leaving a 4cm border on the
side farthest from you. Sprinkle the rice with sesame seeds.
10) Flip the nori and rice over so that the nori is now the top layer. Make a thin line of cucumber along
the nori 2cm to 4cm from the edge closest to you. Drizzle some of the spicy mayonnaise mixture over
the cucumbers, then spoon on the tuna and sprinkle with coriander and spring onions.
11) Roll tightly, using the sushi mat to guide you. Slice into pieces about 5cm inches thick. Repeat with
the remaining ingredients to make a total of 4 rolls.
