Easy Chicken Curry With Kanchan Koya Recipe by Tasty
Dinner
Here's what you need: coconut oil, cinnamon stick, cardamom pods, basmati rice, water, salt, coconut oil, medium yellow onion, fresh ginger, garlic, tomato paste, ground turmeric, ground cumin, ground coriander, cayenne, plain full-fat greek yogurt, boneless, skinless chicken thighs, salt, pepper, water, lime wedge, fresh cilantro
Indian
1 tablespoon coconut oil 1 cinnamon stick, halved 6 cardamom pods 1 cup basmati rice, soaked for 10 minutes 2 cups water Pinch of salt 1 teaspoon coconut oil 1 medium yellow onion, finely chopped 1 tablespoon fresh ginger, peeled and minced 4 cloves garlic, minced 1 tablespoon tomato paste ½ teaspoon ground turmeric 2 teaspoons ground cumin 1 teaspoon ground coriander Pinch of cayenne, optional ½ cup plain full-fat Greek yogurt 1 pound boneless, skinless chicken thighs Salt, to taste Pepper, to taste ¼ cup water Lime wedges ¼ cup chopped fresh cilantro
Make the basmati rice: Melt the coconut oil in a small pot over medium heat. Add the cinnamon stick and cardamom pods and sauté for 2 minutes, until toasty and aromatic. Add the soaked basmati rice, water, and salt. Cover and cook for 10 minutes, until the rice is fluffy. Remove from the heat, fluff the rice with a fork, and remove the cinnamon sticks and cardamom pods. Set aside. In a large pan, melt the coconut oil over medium heat. Add the onion and sauté, stirring occasionally for 10 minutes, until onion is light golden brown. Add the ginger and garlic and sauté for 1 minute, until toasty and aromatic. Add the tomato paste, turmeric, cumin, coriander, and cayenne and stir to combine. Add the yogurt and chicken thighs and season with salt and pepper. Cook for 5 minutes, or until the chicken is no longer pink on the outside. Add the water, cover, and cook for 10 minutes. Remove the lid and continue to cook, tossing the chicken occasionally, for 5 minutes or until the curry sauce has thickened to your liking. Serve the chicken and sauce over the rice with lime wedges and cilantro. Enjoy!
