Teriyaki Chicken Fried Rice Dome Recipe by Tasty
Dinner
For the nights you want to serve a classic favorite, but want to play things up, serve this teriyaki chicken fried rice dome. It’s basically a deconstructed fried rice dish prepared using a bundt cake pan. Just make sure to serve it on a wide platter, so the rice has room to fall apart once you start cutting slices of it.
Fusion
¼ cup sugar ½ cup plus 3 tablespoons soy sauce, divided ½ cup mirin 2 pounds boneless, skinless chicken thighs, sliced 1 tablespoon canola oil 2 carrots, peeled and minced 1 medium onion, minced 1 red bell pepper, seeded and minced Salt, to taste Pepper, to taste 1 cup peas 1 cup broccoli florets 3 tablespoons sesame oil, divided 2 tablespoons minced garlic 1 tablespoon minced ginger 4 cups cooked white rice, cooled 6 large eggs, beaten Sesame seeds, for garnish Sliced scallions, for garnish
In a liquid measuring cup or small bowl, mix together the sugar, ½ cup (120 ml) soy sauce, and the mirin. Add the chicken to a large bowl. Pour ½ cup (120 ml) of the marinade over the chicken and save the rest for later. Toss the chicken to coat, cover with plastic wrap, and marinate in the fridge for 30 minutes. Add the canola oil to a wok or a large skillet over high heat. When the oil begins to shimmer, add the carrots, onion, and pepper. Season with salt and pepper. Cook, stirring occasionally, until starting to soften, 5 minutes. Add the peas and broccoli florets to the skillet. Cook, shaking the pan or stirring, for about 3 more minutes, until the broccoli becomes slightly tender. Remove the vegetables from the skillet. Add 2 tablespoons of sesame oil to the skillet and heat until it shimmers, then add the minced garlic and ginger. When the mixture is fragrant, about 15 seconds later, add the cooked rice, breaking up clumps with a spoon and tossing in the oil. When the rice is well-coated, push to one side of the skillet and add the beaten eggs to the other side. Scramble until it starts to set, then return the veggies to the pan and stir into the rice to incorporate. Add the remaining 3 tablespoons of soy sauce. Stir until well-combined. Transfer the rice mixture to a greased bundt pan. Pack the rice down slightly. Cover and set aside. Heat the remaining tablespoon of sesame oil in the skillet. Add the marinated chicken and cook until browned on all sides, about 10 minutes. Add the reserved teriyaki sauce and cook until reduced and thickened slightly. Sprinkle with sesame seeds. Invert the fried rice dome onto a serving platter. Pour the hot teriyaki chicken into the center of the dome and garnish with sliced scallions. Enjoy!
