Top Chef Junior Falafel Burger Recipe by Tasty
Dinner
Here's what you need: chickpeas, red onion, fresh parsley, garlic, lemon juice, cumin, salt, black pepper, red pepper flakes, bread crumbs, egg, oil, garlic, fresh cilantro, fresh parsley, ground cumin, kosher salt, tahini, fresh lemon juice, large red onion, distilled white vinegar, kosher salt, water, sugar, whole coriander, yellow mustard seeds, small purple cabbage, apple cider vinegar, salt, tomato, whole wheat hamburger bun

2 (15-oz) cans chickpeas, drained and rinsed 1 red onion, chopped 3⁄4 cup parsley, chopped 4 cloves garlic, chopped 1 tablespoon lemon juice 2 teaspoons cumin 1 teaspoon salt, plus more to taste 1 teaspoon black pepper 1⁄2 teaspoon red pepper flakes 1 cup bread crumbs 3 eggs oil, for cooking 3 garlic cloves, crushed 3⁄4 cup coarsely chopped fresh cilantro 3⁄4 cup coarsely chopped fresh parsley 1 teaspoon ground cumin 2 teaspoons kosher salt, plus more 1 cup tahini 1⁄4 cup fresh lemon juice 1 large red onion, sliced into rings 1⁄2 cup distilled white vinegar 1 teaspoon kosher salt 1⁄2 cup water 1⁄2 cup sugar 2 teaspoons whole coriander 2 teaspoons yellow mustard seed 1⁄2 small purple cabbage, thinly sliced 1 tablespoon apple cider vinegar 2 teaspoons salt 1 tomato, sliced 6 whole wheat hamburger buns, toasted
Spiced green tahini sauce: Pulse garlic, cilantro, parsley, cumin, and 2 teaspoons salt in a food processor until similar in texture to pesto. Add tahini and lemon juice; process for seconds. With motor running, gradually drizzle in 1⁄2 cup (120 ml) water and process, adding more water to thin if needed, until sauce is light green and the consistency of sour cream. Season with salt. Falafel: To the bowl of a 2-quart (1.9 liters) food processor, add the chickpeas, onion, parsley, garlic, lemon juice, spices, and eggs. Pulse the ingredients together until just incorporated, forming a wet paste. Don’t over-process. Transfer the chickpea mixture to a large bowl and add the breadcrumbs, mixing until just incorporated. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for 1–2 hours, or overnight. Pickled red onions: Place onions in a bowl. Heat vinegar, water, sugar, spices, and salt in a small saucepan over high heat, whisking until sugar is dissolved. Bring to a boil, then strain and pour over onions. Press onions down with a spoon until submerged. Let rest until onions are softened and liquid has cooled, about 25 minutes. Cabbage slaw: In a bowl, combine all ingredients. Remove the chilled falafel mixture from the refrigerator and shape into 6 patties. In a large nonstick skillet, heat about 1 tablespoon of oil over medium heat. Cook burgers in batches of 3 for 3–4 minutes each side, flipping halfway through. Once they are golden brown and crispy, transfer them to a paper-towel-lined plate and sprinkle lightly with salt. Assembly: Spread about 1 tablespoon spiced green tahini sauce on the bottom of each bun. Place a burger on each bun, topping each with a tomato slice, pickled red onions, and cabbage slaw. Enjoy!
