Ingridients:
100 g cooked and seasoned sushi rice
100 g sashimi grade salmon
1 avocado
1 carrot
Wasabi
1 radish
5 asparagus
1 daikon
Flying fish roe

Method
Step 1: cutting the daikon
Cut off a 10 cm piece of daikon. Then, using a sharp knife, cut it into a thin sheet. This kind of cut is called katsuramuki. It’s a difficult technique that usually takes hours to learn. However, Chef Devaux has made a video showing you how to do almost the same cut in a super simple way. Master katsuramuki in 5 to 10 minutes.

It comes down to this: put a tea towel on the table and slightly wet it, to make it stick to the table. Place 2 metal skewers next to each other on the tea towel. Make sure the vegetable you want to cut is slightly longer than the distance between the skewers. Place the vegetable on the skewers, put the knife against the bottom of the vegetable and slowly roll the vegetable while pushing the knife forwards. Watch the video to see how simple this really is.

When you’re done cutting, fold the sheet and put aside for later.



Step 2: Preparing the asparagus
Cut off the bottom of 5 asparagus. Cook in water (with some sea salt) at 90 °C (194 °F) for 45 to 60 seconds. This is called blanching. Take the asparagus out of the water and put them aside for later.



Step 3: Preparing the carrot
Take a medium sized carrot, cut of a small piece from the top and cut off a piece of 10 cm. Lengthwise, cut off a small strip to get a flat surface. Then cut off thin slices of 1 mm thick. Spread out the slices and cut each slice lengthwise into thin strips. Put aside for later.



Step 4: Preparing the radish

Cut a radish into thin 1 mm thick slices. Cut each slice into thin strips. Put aside for later.



Step 5: Preparing the avocado
Cut an avocado in half, peel it or scoop out the flesh using a table spoon. Cut the avocado lengthwise into wedges. Start at one side and slightly angle the knife, in order to get more or less similar wedges. Put aside for later.



Step 6: Preparing the salmon
Take a piece of 200 gram sashimi grade salmon. Cut in lengthwise into logs of 25 grams. The way you do that, depends on the shape of the piece of salmon. In most cases, you can start by slicing it into 2 thinner pieces, then make 3 lengthwise cuts. This leaves you with 8 salmon logs. Put aside for later.





Step 7: Preparing the roll
Cut a piece of nori in half and place one half on a rolling mat. Wet your hands with some water and vinegar. Take 100 grams of cooked and seasoned sushi rice and spread it out onto the nori. Add a little bit of wasabi and spread it broadwise. Then add 2 salmon logs, 2 asparagus, a bit of the slices of carrot, radish, 1 avocado wedge and some flying fish roe.








Step 8: Finishing the roll

Roll the roll forward and close it a bit before the part with the rice ends. Then push forward to seal it. Place the daikon sheet on the cutting board and put the futomaki roll on top. Roll it once, so that it’s completely covered in the daikon sheet. Cut off the rest of the sheet, but leave a piece of 5 cm. Use this to close the roll.

Cut off a small piece on both ends, to get smooth sides. Then cut the roll into 4 parts of about 2 cm wide. Put the marble futomaki pieces on a dark plate for extra visual effect. Enjoy!


