Ingridients:
200 g salmon
2 avocados
3 tbsp. minced onions
2 limes
1 tbsp. mirin
1 garlic clove
1.5 tsp wasabi
Toasted sesame seeds
Soy sauce
2 tbsp. dices tomatoes
Rice noodles


Method:

Step 1: Preparing the salmon
Take a 200 grams piece of salmon (no need this time for sashimi grade). Sprinkle a generous amount of salt over the salmon on both sides. This will take some of the water out of the fish. It will also slightly change the texture and intensify the flavour. Store in a closed box for 45 minutes to 1 hour.




Step 2: Preparing the guacamole

Put these ingredient into a (spice) blender:

1 tsp garlic powder

1 tsp dehydrated onion flakes

1 tsp cayenne pepper flakes

1 tsp cumin

1 knife tip of smoked paprika powder (be very careful not to overdo it)

2 sun-dried tomatoes

1 tsp Hawaiian red rock salt

1 tsp smoked rock salt

1 tsp pink Himalayan rock salt

Blend all the ingredients until it’s a smooth powder. Note: if you don’t have 3 different kinds of salt, simply use 3 teaspoons of regular salt. Depending on the kind you use, it may be better to use 2 teaspoons. Commercial table salt tends to have a saltier taste than other varieties. Also keep in mind that you can always add salt later to adjust the taste, but you can never take away the salt once it’s in the food.



Step 3: Preparing the avocados
Cut two avocados in half, peel them or remove the flesh using a spoon. Cut the avocados roughly in smaller parts. This is not really necessary, but it makes it much easier to mash the avocados later. Put the avocado pieces in a bowl. Add 3 tablespoons of minced onions. Also add 1 tablespoon of the spice mixture.



Step 4: Mashing the avocado
Mash the avocado mixture using a hand masher. If you use a blender, the result will be much too smooth. Guacamole should be a little chunky – but not too chunky!

 Step 5: Completing the guacamole
Roll a lime over the cutting board while applying some force with your hand. This helps release the juice. It’s best to have another lime available, just in case one lime doesn’t produce enough juice. Cut the lime in half and squeeze the juice over the mashed avocado. You’ll have to decide for yourself whether you’ll need to add more lime juice. Too much lime ruins the taste of the guacamole.

Now add 1 tablespoon of mirin (Japanese sweet rice wine). Some people replace mirin with dry sherry, but that will notably change the taste and is not recommended. Mix the contents of the bole by hand by simply mashing it some more.

Press 1 clove of garlic and add to the mixture. Also add 1.5 teaspoon of freshly grated wasabi. If you don’t have fresh wasabi, use a bit less of the fake wasabi you probably have. It tends to be much stronger and can ruin the taste of the guacamole. Just add a little bit and taste until you like it.

Now add 1 and a bit tablespoon of toasted sesame seeds, a splash of soy sauce (1 teaspoon) and 2 tablespoons of dices tomatoes.

Mix it all together, but make sure not to crush the tomatoes too much. The red of the tomatoes and the green of the avocado can result in a brownish color if you mix it too well.

Add a handful of coriander leaves. Not the stems, just the leaves. Chop and add to the mixture. Mix it again but don’t crush the coriander, just mix it all roughly together.

Taste the guacamole. It should taste amazing! Cover the bowl with cling film and put it in the fridge. It will keep its nice, green color for at least a couple of hours.



Step 6: Cutting the salmon
Take the salmon, rinse of the salt and dry the salmon using a paper towel. Put the salmon on the cutting board and cut it, keeping the knife parallel to the fat lines on the fish (the same as when you cut it for sashimi). Use a really sharp knife and cut of thin slices in a smooth motion.

Put some cling film onto the cutting board. Spread a bit of corn starch on the cling film. Put a slice of salmon on the starch, cover it with the cling film and press it, to make the starch really stick to the salmon. The salmon with the corn starch will feel weird when you touch it, but it is important to do this. It will help make the salmon nice and crispy.



Step 7: Deep frying the salmon
Put the salmon slices one (or a few) at a time in the deep fryer on a temperature of 145 °C (293 °F) for 3 to 5 minutes. This depends on the number of slices you put in the fryer. Don’t put it all in at once! The more salmon you fry at the same time, the lower the temperature of the oil. That will result in greasy salmon.

Make sure the salmon doesn’t stick to the bottom of the fryer. Once the salmon slices float to the top, turn them around a few times to cook them evenly. The salmon should come out slightly leathery, not completely crispy. Let the fried salmon dry on a paper towel.



Step 8: Re-frying the salmon
Turn up the heat to 190 °C (374 °F). Put in all the salmon and fry for 3 to 5 minutes. This will make the salmon really nice and crispy. Then let it drain out for a short while above the fryer, to get rid of any excessive oil. Place the salmon on a paper towel to get rid of the last oil. Don’t touch the salmon with your hands at this time, because it will be sizzling hot.



Step 9: Preparing the garnish
While the salmon is cooling, deep fry some rice noodles on a temperature of 190 °C (374 °F). The noodles will puff up and expand. When it all floats, it’s done. Let it drain. You’re almost done.



Step 10: Presenting the salmon and guacamole
Put two tablespoons of the guacamole on a plate or wooden board. You can add a few fresh coriander leaves to make it look even nicer. Place the fried rice noodles next to the guacamole. Add the salmon chips/crisps. Now it’s time to taste the result of your hard work. Enjoy!
