Ingridients:
2 sushi grade salmon filets (with straight, diagonal ‘grain’)
500 ml water
4% salt
6% sugar
40g (approx. 43 ml) extra virgin olive oil


Method:

Step 1: Marinating the Salmon Filets
Trim two sushi grade salmon filets into similarly sized rectangles. For aesthetic purposes, ensure that the ‘grain’ of the salmon runs diagonally across the width of the filet.

To create the brine, first Pour 500ml  of cold water into a large plastic container. Add 4% salt, followed by 6% sugar, then stir well to combine. Gently place both salmon filets into the plastic container and refrigerate, covered, for 24 hours. This changes the molecular structure of the fish, ensuring that the albumin contained within doesn’t leak out during cooking.

Step 2: Cooking the Salmon

Remove the salmon filets from the brine, and gently pat dry with a clean, dry cloth.

Next, place each salmon filet into a separate sous vide cooking bag. Pour 40g  of extra virgin olive oil into each bag. Seal each bag using a table top vacuum sealer. Don’t worry if an air pocket forms around the oil, as this will not affect the cooking process.

Preheat your sous vide cooker to 41C (105.8 F), then immerse one of the bags into the water. Ensure the fish is fully immersed, or it will not cook through. Cook for 25-27 minutes.

Carefully remove the sous vide bag from the cooker using a pair of metal tongs. Then, lay the bag on a flat surface to rest for 1-2 minutes.

Step 3: Separating the Salmon
Using a pair of scissors, carefully cut a slit along the top of the sous vide bag. Gently remove the fish using a pair of tongs, and lay flat on your chopping board.

Begin separating the diagonal ‘strips’ of salmon using a butter knife. To do this, simply position the tip of the butter knife in the small indentation between the diagonal strips (the fat layer), then slide it in to gently prise them apart. Continue working along the filet until all the strips are separated.

Step 4: Preparing the Sashimi Plate
To present your sashimi, you will need one sliced avocado, and a siphon of pre-prepared Soy Sauce Air – the recipe for which can be found here.

Using a wide nozzle, squirt a swirl of Soy Sauce Air onto one end of the plate. Then, using the back of a dessert spoon, flare the Soy Sauce Air along the length of the plate in one fluid movement.

Position the slices of avocado at the center of the Soy Sauce, then, spread them out gently using your fingers. Next, gently layer on the salmon slices so that they slightly overlap the avocado. Finish with a few strategically positioned mint leaves to decorate.

Freezing and storage guidance:    FDA recommendations state that, in order to eliminate the possibility of parasites being present prior to cooking, salmon should be frozen before use. The below guidelines highlight optimal temperatures for freezing fish, depending upon when you intend to use it.
-4ºF (-20ºC) or below for 7 days.
-31ºF (-35ºC) or below for 15 hours.
– or freeze till solid at -31ºF (-35ºC) or below, then store at -4ºF (-20ºC) or
below for another 24 hours prior to use.
