Strawberry Macaron Ice Cream Sandwich Recipe by Tasty
Desserts
Here's what you need: superfine almond flour, powdered sugar, large egg white, granulated sugar, red food coloring, strawberry ice cream, raspberry
French
1 cup superfine almond flour (110 grams) (if unable to find superfine almond flour, it is recommended that you pulse the almond flour in a food processor first) 1¾ cups powdered sugar (200 grams) 3 large egg whites (100 grams), room temperature ¼ cup granulated sugar (50 grams) 2 drops red food coloring 1 pint strawberry ice cream 12 raspberries
Line a baking tray with parchment paper. Using a fine mesh sieve, sift together the almond flour and powdered sugar in a medium bowl. Discard any large pieces that remain in the sieve. In a medium mixing bowl, beat the egg whites with an electric hand mixer on medium speed until soft peaks form. Add a third of the granulated sugar and with mixer on high, continue to beat until egg whites are stiff peaks. Add another third of the sugar and beat again until egg whites are back to stiff peaks. Repeat with the remaning sugar, beating until whites are shiny and fluffy. Add the sifted flour and sugar to the bowl with the egg whites. Add 2 drops of food coloring. With a rubber scraper, fold the mixture into the egg whites, about 35-45 strokes, or until the batter falls on itself but a slight peak remains. NOTE: Do not over-mix or batter will be too thin and runny. Fill a piping bag fitted with a round tip. Pipe batter onto prepared baking tray into 3-inch (8 cm) disks. Lift and drop the baking tray onto a hard surface 2-3 times to smooth out the batter and knock out any air bubbles. Allow macarons to rest at room temperature for one hour, until a skin forms on the surface. Preheat oven to 275˚F (140˚C). After about one hour, gently brush the top a macaron with your finger to check that a skin has formed. The batter should not stick to your finger, if it does, allow to set for an additional 15 minutes. Bake cookies in preheated oven for 15 minutes, or until the macarons peel away from the parchment when lifted. Allow the macaron shells to cool completely. Using a small ice cream scoop, scoop ice cream and put onto the bottom side of the macaron shell. Place raspberries in between ice cream scoops, and sandwich together with a similarly sized macaron. Enjoy!
